feat(docs): Add docs and example CLI usage (#41)
oasisprotocol/cli: docs/account.mdx

![code](../examples/account.03.out)

To also include any staked assets in the balance, pass the `--show-delegations`
flag.

```shell
oasis account show oasis1qrec770vrek0a9a5lcrv0zvt22504k68svq7kzve --show-delegations
```

```
Address: oasis1qrec770vrek0a9a5lcrv0zvt22504k68svq7kzve
Nonce: 32

=== CONSENSUS LAYER (testnet) ===
  Total: 972.881181157 TEST
  Available: 951.169098086 TEST

  Active Delegations from this Account:
    Total: 21.712083071 TEST

    Delegations:
      - To:     oasis1qz2tg4hsatlxfaf8yut9gxgv8990ujaz4sldgmzx
        Amount: 21.712083071 TEST (20000000000 shares)

  Allowances for this Account:
    Total: 269.5000002 TEST
    Allowances:
      - Beneficiary: oasis1qqczuf3x6glkgjuf0xgtcpjjw95r3crf7y2323xd
        Amount:      269.5 TEST
      - Beneficiary: oasis1qrydpazemvuwtnp3efm7vmfvg3tde044qg6cxwzx
        Amount:      0.0000002 TEST

=== sapphire PARATIME ===
Balances for all denominations:
  6.9995378 TEST
```

:::info

`--show-delegations` flag is not enabled by default, because account
delegations are not indexed on-chain. This means that the endpoint needs
to scan block by block to retrieve this information and takes some time

> often leading to the endpoint timout due to denial-of-service protection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
often leading to the endpoint timeout on public endpoints due to denial-of-service protection.
```

## Network, ParaTime and Account selectors {#npa}

Let's look at the three parameters you will often pass to any of the `account`
commands.

### Network

The `--network <network_name>` parameter specifies the [network] which the
Oasis CLI should connect to.

For example:

![code shell](../examples/account.04.in)

![code](../examples/account.04.out)

![code shell](../examples/account.05.in)

![code](../examples/account.05.out)

### ParaTime

The `--paratime <paratime_name>` sets which [ParaTime] Oasis CLI should use.
If you do not want to use any ParaTime, for example to perform a consensus
layer operation, pass the `--no-paratime` flag explicitly.

![code shell](../examples/account.06.in)

![code](../examples/account.06.out)

### Account

The `--account <account_name>` specifies which account in your wallet the
Oasis CLI should use to sign the transaction with.

![code shell](../examples/account.07.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.07.y.out)

![code shell](../examples/account.08.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.08.y.out)

:::tip

You can also set **the default [network][network-set-default],
[ParaTime][paratime-set-default] or [account][wallet-set-default] to use**, if no

> Network, ParaTime or Account selectors provided respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
network, ParaTime or account selectors are provided.
```

accounts on the consensus layer or between two accounts inside the same
ParaTime.

![code shell](../examples/account.09.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.09.y.out)

![code shell](../examples/account.10.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.10.y.out)

## Allowance {#allow}

`account allow <beneficiary> <amount>` command makes your funds withdrawable by
a 3rd party beneficiary at consensus layer. For example, instead of paying your
partner for a service directly, you can ask for their address and enable **them**
to withdraw the amount which you agreed on from your account. This is a similar
mechanism to how payment checks were used in the past.

![code shell](../examples/account.11.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.11.y.out)

The allowance command uses relative amount. For example, if your run the
above command 3 times, Logan will be allowed to withdraw 30 ROSE.

:::tip

To reduce the allowed amount or completely **disallow** the withdrawal, use the
negative amount. To avoid flag ambiguity in the shell, you will first need to
pass all desired flags and parameters except the negative amount, then append
`--` to mark the end of options, and finally append the negative amount.

```shell

> oasis account allow logan -- -10

Reviewer: No example/test for this one?

Author: This one is tricky, because the example generator cannot append `--config` and `-y` flags to be non-interactive because of `--`.

Reviewer: Ok.

```

:::

The allowance transaction is also required, if you want to deposit funds from
your consensus account to a ParaTime. The ParaTime will **withdraw** the amount
from your consensus account and fund your ParaTime account with the same
amount deducted by the deposit fee. Oasis CLI can derive the address of the
ParaTime beneficiary, if you use `paratime:<paratime name>` as the beneficiary
address.

![code shell](../examples/account.12.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.12.y.out)

:::info

> [Network and Account](#npa) selectors are available for the `account allow`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Network and account](#npa) selectors are available for the `account allow`
```

![code](../examples/account.17.y.out)

If the address is not provided, the address of the account inside ParaTime will be
used as a consensus address:

![code shell](../examples/account.18.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.18.y.out)

:::caution

Withdrawal transactions are not free of charge and the fee will be deducted
**from your ParaTime balance**.

:::

Similar to the [`account deposit`](#deposit) command, you can also specify an arbitrary
Oasis address which you want to withdraw your tokens to.

![code shell](../examples/account.19.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.19.y.out)

:::caution

You cannot use the destination address of your `secp256k1` account or any other
Ethereum-formatted address for the withdrawal, because this signature scheme is
not supported on the consensus layer!

:::

:::info

[Network, ParaTime and Account](#npa) selectors are available for the
`account withdraw` command.

:::

## Delegate Tokens to a Validator {#delegate}

To stake your tokens on the consensus layer, run
`account delegate <amount> <to>`. This will delegate the specified amount of
tokens to a validator.

![code shell](../examples/account.20.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.20.y.out)

> Once your tokens are staked, they are denoted as *shares* since the number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your tokens are staked, they are converted into *shares* since the number of
```

> tokens will increase over time due to [positive interest rate][token-metrics].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tokens may change over time based on [the staking reward schedule][token-metrics].
```

The number of shares on the other hand will remain constant, if your validator

> is not subject to [slashing]. Also, shares are always interpreted as a whole

Reviewer: The _number_ of shares will remain constant even in case of slashing, it is only their _value_ that will decrease.

Oasis CLI will print the transaction to the standard output for you to examine.
Use [`--output-file`](#output-file) parameter, if you wish to save the
transaction to the file and submit it to the network afterwards by using the
[`transaction submit`][transaction-submit] command.

### Entity Management {#entity}

#### Register your Entity {#entity-register}

In order for validators to become part of the validator set and the compute
committee, they first need to register as an entity inside the network's
registry. Use the `account entity register <entity.json>` command to register
your entity and provide a JSON file with the Entity descriptor. You can use the
[`network show`][network-show-id-entities] command to see existing entities and
then examine specific ones to see how entity descriptors of the currently
registered entities look like.

[network-show-id-entities]: ./network.md#show-id-entities
[Oasis Core Registry service]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-core/blob/master/docs/consensus/services/registry.md#entities-and-nodes

![code shell](../examples/account.25.y.in)

![code](../examples/account.25.y.out)

:::info

> [Network and Account](#npa) selectors are available for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Network and account](#npa) selectors are available for the
```

`account from-public-key <public_key>` converts the Base64-encoded public key
to the [Oasis native address](../terminology.md#address).

![code shell](../examples/account/from-public-key.in)

![code](../examples/account/from-public-key.out)

This command is most often used by the network validators for converting the
public key of their entity to a corresponding address. You can find your
entity's ID in the `id` field of the `entity.json` file.

:::tip

Oasis consensus transactions hold the public key of the signer instead of their
*from* address. This command can be used for debugging to determine the
signer's staking address on the network.

:::

### Non-Interactive Mode {#y}

Add `-y` flag to any operation, if you want to use Oasis CLI in
non-interactive mode. This will answer "yes to all" for yes/no questions
and for all other prompts it will keep the proposed default values.

### Output Transaction to File {#output-file}

You can use `--output-file <filename>` parameter to save a transaction to
a JSON file instead of immediately broadcasting it to the network. Afterwards,
use the [`transaction`] command to verify and submit the transaction.

[`transaction`]: ./transaction.md

> ### Do not Sign the Transaction {#unsigned}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Do Not Sign the Transaction {#unsigned}
```

[offline/air-gapped machine] machine:

1. First, generate an unsigned transaction on a networked machine,
2. copy it over to an air-gapped machine,
3. [sign it][transaction-sign] on the air-gapped machine,
4. copy it over to the networked machine,
5. [broadcast the transaction][transaction-submit] on the networked machine.

[`--output-file`]: #output-file
[transaction-sign]: ./transaction.md#sign
[transaction-submit]: ./transaction.md#submit
[offline/air-gapped machine]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_gap_\(networking\)

### Offline Mode {#offline}

To generate a transaction without accessing the network and also without
broadcasting it, add `--offline` flag. In this case Oasis CLI will require that
you provide all necessary transaction details (e.g. [account nonce](#nonce),
[gas limit](#gas-limit), [gas price](#gas-price)) which would otherwise be
automatically obtained from the network. Oasis CLI will print the transaction to
the standard output for you to examine. Use [`--output-file`](#output-file), if
you wish to save the transaction to the file and submit it to the network
afterwards by using the [`transaction submit`][transaction-submit] command.

> ### Account's nonce {#nonce}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Account's Nonce {#nonce}
```

`--nonce <nonce_number>` will override the detection of the account's nonce used
to sign the transaction with the specified one.

> ### Gas price {#gas-price}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Gas Price {#gas-price}
```

`--gas-price <price_in_base_units>` sets the transaction's price per gas unit in
base units.

> ### Gas limit {#gas-limit}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Gas Limit {#gas-limit}
```

`--gas-limit <limit>` sets the maximum amount of gas that can be spend by the
transaction.

### Entity Management {#entity}

> #### Register your Entity {#entity-register}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Register Your Entity {#entity-register}
```

In order for validators to become part of the validator set and/or the compute
committee, they first need to register as an entity inside the network's
registry. Use the `account entity register <entity.json>` command to register
your entity and provide a JSON file with the Entity descriptor. You can use the
[`network show`][network-show-id-entities] command to see existing entities and
then examine specific ones to see how entity descriptors of the currently
registered entities look like.

[network-show-id-entities]: ./network.md#show-id-entities
[Oasis Core Registry service]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-core/blob/master/docs/consensus/services/registry.md#entities-and-nodes

![code shell](../examples/account/entity-register.y.in)

![code](../examples/account/entity-register.y.out)

:::info

[Network and account](#npa) selectors are available for the
`account entity register` command.

:::

> #### Deregister your Entity {#entity-deregister}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Deregister Your Entity {#entity-deregister}
```

To remove an entity from the network's registry, invoke
`account entity deregister`. No additional arguments are required since each
account can only deregister their own entity, if one exists in the registry.

![code shell](../examples/account/entity-deregister.y.in)

![code](../examples/account/entity-deregister.y.out)

:::info

[Network and account](#npa) selectors are available for the
`account entity deregister` command.

:::

> ### Change your Commission Schedule {#amend-commission-schedule}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Change Your Commission Schedule {#amend-commission-schedule}
```

Validators can use `account amend-commission-schedule` to add or remove
their commission bounds and rates at consensus layer. Rate bounds can be
defined by using the `--bounds <epoch>/<min_rate>/<max_rate>` parameter.
Actual rates which can be subject to change every epoch can be defined with the
`--rates <epoch>/<rate>` parameter. Rates are specified in milipercents
(100% = 100000m%). The new commission schedule will replace any previous
schedules.

![code shell](../examples/account/amend-commission-schedule.y.in)

![code](../examples/account/amend-commission-schedule.y.out)

To learn more on commission rates read the  section inside the Oasis Core
[Staking service][staking-service-commission-schedule] chapter.

:::info

[Network and account](#npa) selectors are available for the
`account amend-commission-schedule` command.

:::

[staking-service-commission-schedule]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-core/blob/master/docs/consensus/services/staking.md#amend-commission-schedule

> ### Unfreeze your Node {#node-unfreeze}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Unfreeze Your Node {#node-unfreeze}
```

---
title: Account operations
description: Using CLI to manage your tokens
---

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';

# `account`

`account` command is used for consensus or ParaTime-layer on-chain actions
associated with accounts:

- getting the account balance including delegations,
- transferring tokens between the accounts,
- delegating or undelegating tokens to or from validators (*staking*),
- depositing and withdrawing tokens to or from a ParaTime,

> - changing permission policy of the account,

Reviewer: What is this about, what kind of "permission policy"?

Author: allowance transaction

- setting commission schedule of the validator account.

## Show

Use `account show [address]` command to print the balance of the account on the consensus layer
and the currently selected ParaTime, if it is non-zero. Running it without
arguments will show you the balance of your default account.

```
$ oasis account show
Address: oasis1qrec770vrek0a9a5lcrv0zvt22504k68svq7kzve
Nonce: 28

=== CONSENSUS LAYER (testnet) ===
  Total: 984.669098086 TEST
  Available: 984.669098086 TEST

  Allowances for this Account:
    Total: 0.0000002 TEST
    Allowances:
      - Beneficiary: oasis1qrydpazemvuwtnp3efm7vmfvg3tde044qg6cxwzx
        Amount:      0.0000002 TEST

> === emerald PARATIME ===

Reviewer: Should we have sapphire as default?

Author: Yeah, that would make sense both for Mainnet and Testnet now.

Author: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-sdk/pull/1374

$ oasis account show 0xBd16C6bF701a01DF1B5C11B14860b6bDbE776669
Address: oasis1qrvzxld9rz83wv92lvnkpmr30c77kj2tvg0pednz
Nonce: 0

=== CONSENSUS LAYER (testnet) ===
  Total: 0.0 TEST
  Available: 0.0 TEST
```

To show active staking delegations, pass the `--show-delegations` flag.

```
$ oasis account show --show-delegations
Address: oasis1qrec770vrek0a9a5lcrv0zvt22504k68svq7kzve
Nonce: 28

=== CONSENSUS LAYER (testnet) ===
  Total: 1006.262158403 TEST
  Available: 984.669098086 TEST

  Active Delegations from this Account:
    Total: 21.593060317 TEST

    Delegations:
      - To:     oasis1qz2tg4hsatlxfaf8yut9gxgv8990ujaz4sldgmzx
        Amount: 21.593060317 TEST (20000000000 shares)

  Allowances for this Account:
    Total: 0.0000002 TEST
    Allowances:
      - Beneficiary: oasis1qrydpazemvuwtnp3efm7vmfvg3tde044qg6cxwzx
        Amount:      0.0000002 TEST

=== emerald PARATIME ===
Balances for all denominations:
  1.0 TEST
```

:::info

`--show-delegations` flag is not enabled by default, because account
delegations are not indexed on-chain. To retrieve this information Oasis CLI
relies on external block explorers such as [oasisscan.com], which may expose

> your privacy.

Reviewer: This is not the case, it still uses the node but is slow. Will be faster in an upcoming release of Oasis Core which added indices though.

:::

[oasisscan.com]: https://oasisscan.com

## Network, ParaTime and Account selector

Every `account` subcommand accepts the `--network <network_name>` parameter

> which enable you to specify other than the default [network] the Oasis CLI

Reviewer: Mentions the notion of a default network, should it link to docs showing how to change defaults (maybe in a tip box)?

  Amount change: -10.0 TEST
Nonce:  0
Fee:
  Amount: 0.0 TEST
  Gas limit: 1288
  (gas price: 0.0 TEST per gas unit)

Network:  testnet
ParaTime: none (consensus layer)
Account:  oscar
```

:::

The allowance transaction is also required, if you want to deposit funds from
your consensus account to a ParaTime. The ParaTime will **withdraw** the amount
from your consensus account and fund your ParaTime account with the same
amount deducted by the deposit fee. Oasis CLI can derive the address of the
ParaTime beneficiary, if you use `paratime:<paratime name>` as the beneficiary
address.

```
$ oasis account allow paratime:sapphire 10 --account oscar
Unlock your account.
? Passphrase:
You are about to sign the following transaction:
Method: staking.Allow
Body:
  Beneficiary:   oasis1qqczuf3x6glkgjuf0xgtcpjjw95r3crf7y2323xd
  Amount change: +10.0 TEST
Nonce:  0
Fee:
  Amount: 0.0 TEST
  Gas limit: 1278
  (gas price: 0.0 TEST per gas unit)

Network:  testnet
ParaTime: none (consensus layer)
Account:  oscar
```

## Deposit

`account deposit <amount> [address]` will deposit funds from your consensus account
to the target address inside the selected ParaTime. If no address is provided, the

> deposit will be made to the address corresponding to your consensus address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deposit will be made to the address corresponding to your consensus account
```

? Passphrase:
You are about to sign the following transaction:
Format: plain
Method: consensus.Deposit
Body:
  To: oasis1qpupfu7e2n6pkezeaw0yhj8mcem8anj64ytrayne
  Amount: 10.0 TEST
Authorized signer(s):
  1. W4Xii5x0oaOlDa1wVAa1VTmp18NRt4Z6NseaoDtRA7o= (ed25519)
     Nonce: 0
Fee:
  Amount: 0.0 TEST
  Gas limit: 11310
  (gas price: 0.0 TEST per gas unit)

Network:  testnet
ParaTime: sapphire
Account:  oscar
```

## Withdraw

`account withdraw <amount> [to]` will withdraw funds from your ParaTime account
to a consensus address.

```
$ oasis account withdraw 10 oscar
Unlock your account.
? Passphrase:
You are about to sign the following transaction:
Format: plain
Method: consensus.Withdraw
Body:
  To: oscar (oasis1qq59js97ytn2xcnscyx9n25z5y4dc6z6qcqsydyr)
  Amount: 10.0 TEST
Authorized signer(s):
  1. ArEjDxsPfDvfeLlity4mjGzy8E/nI4umiC8vYQh+eh/c (secp256k1eth)
     Nonce: 0
Fee:
  Amount: 0.0011317 TEST
  Gas limit: 11317
  (gas price: 0.0000001 TEST per gas unit)

Network:  testnet
ParaTime: sapphire
Account:  eugene
```

If address is not provided, the address of the account inside ParaTime will be
used as a consensus address. You cannot use the address of your `secp256k1`

> account, because this signature scheme is not supported on consensus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
account, because this signature scheme is not supported on the consensus layer.
```

Unlock your account.
? Passphrase:
You are about to sign the following transaction:
Format: plain
Method: consensus.Withdraw
Body:
  To: webext (oasis1qpxhsf7xnm007csw2acaa7mta2krzpwex5c90qu6)
  Amount: 10.0 TEST
Authorized signer(s):
  1. ArEjDxsPfDvfeLlity4mjGzy8E/nI4umiC8vYQh+eh/c (secp256k1eth)
     Nonce: 0
Fee:
  Amount: 0.0011317 TEST
  Gas limit: 11317
  (gas price: 0.0000001 TEST per gas unit)

Network:  testnet
ParaTime: sapphire
Account:  eugene
```

## Delegate and Undelegate stake

To stake your tokens on consensus layer, run `account delegate <amount> <to>`.
This will delegate the specified amount of tokens to a validator.

```
$ oasis account delegate 20 oasis1qpkl3vykn9mf4xcq9eevmey4ffrzf0ajtcpvd7sk --account oscar --no-paratime
Unlock your account.
? Passphrase:
You are about to sign the following transaction:
Method: staking.AddEscrow
Body:
  To:     oasis1qpkl3vykn9mf4xcq9eevmey4ffrzf0ajtcpvd7sk
  Amount: 20.0 TEST
Nonce:  7
Fee:
  Amount: 0.0 TEST
  Gas limit: 1271
  (gas price: 0.0 TEST per gas unit)

Network:  testnet
ParaTime: none (consensus layer)
Account:  oscar
```

Once your tokens are staked, they are denoted as *shares* since the number of

> tokens will increase over time due to positive interest rate, while the number

Reviewer: This needs to be reworded to say change as it may also be reduced in case of slashing etc. Also this probably shouldn't say "interest rate" as it is based on the current staking reward schedule, commission rate, etc.

of shares will remain constant. Also, shares are always interpreted as a whole
number, whereas the amount of tokens is usually a rational number and may lead
to rounding errors when managing your delegations. To find out how many shares
do you poses, run `account show` and look for the `shares` under the active
delegations section:

```
$ oasis account show oscar --show-delegations
Address: oasis1qrec770vrek0a9a5lcrv0zvt22504k68svq7kzve
Nonce: 28

=== CONSENSUS LAYER (testnet) ===
  Total: 1006.262158403 TEST
  Available: 984.669098086 TEST

  Active Delegations from this Account:
    Total: 21.593060317 TEST

    Delegations:
      - To:     oasis1qpkl3vykn9mf4xcq9eevmey4ffrzf0ajtcpvd7sk
        Amount: 21.593060317 TEST (20000000000 shares)

  Allowances for this Account:
    Total: 0.0000002 TEST
    Allowances:
      - Beneficiary: oasis1qpkl3vykn9mf4xcq9eevmey4ffrzf0ajtcpvd7sk
        Amount:      0.0000002 TEST

=== emerald PARATIME ===
Balances for all denominations:
  1.0 TEST
```

To undelegate tokens, use `account undelegate <shares> <from>`. You will need

> to specify the **number of shares to undelegate** and the validator address you

Reviewer: Should explicitly mention that these are not tokens but shares and explain that the value is derived based on the state of the pool that one delegated to.

Should also mention the debonding period and that during that period the delegated amount may still be subject to slashing.

Method: staking.ReclaimEscrow
Body:
  From:   oasis1qpkl3vykn9mf4xcq9eevmey4ffrzf0ajtcpvd7sk
  Shares: 20000000000
Nonce:  7
Fee:
  Amount: 0.0 TEST
  Gas limit: 1275
  (gas price: 0.0 TEST per gas unit)

Network:  testnet
ParaTime: none (consensus layer)
Account:  oscar
```

## Advanced

### Public key to Address

`from-public-key <public_key>` converts the Base64-encoded public key to the
Oasis native address.

```
$ oasis account from-public-key NcPzNW3YU2T+ugNUtUWtoQnRvbOL9dYSaBfbjHLP1pE=
oasis1qrec770vrek0a9a5lcrv0zvt22504k68svq7kzve
```

This command is typically used when debugging Oasis transactions. Instead of
the from address, the transaction contains the public key of the
signer and this operation allows you to simply determine their
corresponding address.

### Non-interactive mode

Add `-y` flag to any operation, if you want to use Oasis CLI in
non-interactive mode. This will answer "yes to all" for yes/no questions
and for all other prompts it will keep the proposed default values.

### Offline mode

To generate a transaction but not broadcast it, add `--offline` flag. Oasis CLI
will then print the transaction content to the standard output. Then, you can

> save the transaction to a file and submit it to the network by using the

Reviewer: Mention the new output file options.

(100% = 100000m%). The new commission schedule will replace any previous
schedules.

```
$ oasis account amend-commission-schedule --bounds 29000/1000/2000,35000/900/1900 --rates 29000/1500
Unlock your account.
? Passphrase:
You are about to sign the following transaction:
Method: staking.AmendCommissionSchedule
Body:
  Amendment:
    Rates:
      (1) start: epoch 29000
          rate:  1.5%
    Rate Bounds:
      (1) start:        epoch 29000
          minimum rate: 1.0%
          maximum rate: 2.0%
      (2) start:        epoch 35000
          minimum rate: 0.9%
          maximum rate: 1.9%
Nonce:  7
Fee:
  Amount: 0.0 TEST
  Gas limit: 1355
  (gas price: 0.0 TEST per gas unit)

Network:  testnet
ParaTime: none (consensus layer)
Account:  eugene
```

For learn more on commission rates for validators from the node operators point
of view, read the section inside the [Run your node] chapter.

[Run your node]: ../../../node/run-your-node/validator-node/amend-commission-schedule.md

### Burn tokens

`account burn <amount>` command will permanently destroy the amount of tokens
in your account and remove them from circulation. This command should not be

> used on public networks.

Reviewer: Why not?
